All right, guys.
Hi.
So, in this particular video,
let's start by coding a basic
authentication system using
the story one, then improving it
with story two, and further
improving it with story three.
And finally the last set
of the story, how we can
make it fully optimized.
Okay, So I have made a very simple
project that is authentication 01.
So first things first, npm
init in your integrated terminal.
Right.
So authentication 01.
I'll just do enter,
enter, enter and enter.
Everything is good.
So let's install couple of things.
Right?
npm install express is first thing.
And please do mention at the rate 4.
Okay.
4 point x, because you know, we want
to install express at 4 so that
you don't get into any trouble.
Nice.
Now because we also want typings.
Okay, we also want typing.
So I'll just say npm install
at the rate types node at the rate
types express at 4.0 so that I
can get the IDE recommendations.
And don't forget to save
it as a dev dependency.
So after this particular
command, this is what my
package JSON looks like.
So you can see in the dependencies,
I only have Express
at this particular version.
I have dev dependencies at,
this particular version
and this particular version.
Nice.
Now let's get started
by creating an index js file.
So first things first, I just want to
basically create an express server.
Okay.
So I can just say import.
Okay, Import express from express.
Nice.
Then I can just create
an app which is express.
Okay, that's also good.
And let's create a port also.
So const port, is equals to I.
I'll just say 8,000 that is okay.
And app dot listen.
On which particular port?
This particular port.
And.
And a callback function
saying console log.
Let me just zoom in a little
bit for you so that
you can see this clearly.
Right.
I hope this is fine.
So console log.
And I can just say, you know,
server started
on port and just add the port here.
Nice.
Now what is the next step?
Let's create some routes.
Okay.
Now, as a part of authentication,
of course, you
need a login route, right?
So what do you mean by login?
Login basically means that
you are going to give me
your username password.
That means you are trying
to authenticate.
You are bringing back a token.
Okay, I'll create one more route.
Let's say, you know, sign up.
Okay, let's say sign up.
So this is, is going
to be your sign up route.
And sign up is basically like, you
know, taking your car and parking
it creating a new car sign up.
And I'll just create one
more route that is me.
Me basically returns that.
Who are you on the server?
Can I recognize you or not?
Is going to be the me route.
So now see what we are going
to do is app dot get.
Okay, first let's sorry app dot post.
Let's create a route that is sign up.
Okay?
Now what is the sign up?
Sign up basically means
that hey, here is my car.
Here is my car, okay?
Please park it and give
me back a token that is
your sign up, correct?
That is how you sign up.
So in the sign up, okay, one,
what will you give me?
Okay, so what are you
going to give me?
You are going to give
me your credentials.
Okay, so a callback function.
So I'll just say hey, this is
request, this is a response.
So I'll just take some data
from the request body.
What, what I want, I want.
Okay, when you bring your car
basically your data,
I want your first name, okay?
And let's just call it as name.
And you can give me your email
and you can give me your password.
So email is basically
like your car's number.
Okay, Just for the analogy.
So I'll just make a new comment.
So email is basically like
a unique car number, right?
So in order to have this, what I
will do understand this thing.
This is very important, correct?
First of all, I have to do
one thing that is a middleware
app dot use, okay?
App dot use that is express
dot JSON because we are going
to talk in the JSON format.
Now what I can do here is if
you think about it, I have
to create a user, right?
Basically I need my diary.
Okay?
Const diary.
Eventually it can be a database also.
But as of now let's go
with this thing diary.
So what I can do is first of all
check that if this particular
email is already in the diary.
If email in diary this means you
are already signed up, right?
So you can just say return
response status of a 400 and you
can just say JSON and return an
error that a user with account Or
I can just say user, email
already taken.
So this particular
email is already in the use.
Else what will you do is
let's create a token for this user.
Let's create a token
for this user, right?
So what I.
How can you create a token
for this particular user?
Tell me that.
Okay, So I can just say I'll
just use date.now so this
basically returns what is my
current date so that is a token.
Simple.
Okay.
Ideally it should have
to be some kind of id, but this
is my id let's say.
Okay, now here is the one
thing that I have done wrong.
Let's create a diary and let's
create a new set of emails
which are already taken.
So emails is basically
going to be a new set.
Okay.
Okay, so let's say if emails dot has
okay, this particular email.
Now if it is not there, what I'm
going to do is I'm going to just
say hey, in my diary, in my diary
at this particular token, whatever
you have created, I am going to
say hey, this is your name, this
is your email and this is your
password.
Okay, I have basically
made a diary entry.
Okay, so create a token for user.
A token for user.
Okay, I have made a token and then
I can just say do a diary entry.
Okay, do a entry in diary.
Okay, very nice.
And then, then what, what's next?
One more thing also you have to say
emails.add okay, this particular
email and finally you can
just return response.JSON saying
status is let's say success.
And then you can also return
his token that hey, hey bro.
That this is your token.
Every time you have to come back,
you have to come back
with this particular token.
Nice.
So this is what I have done.
This is what we basically discussed.
So just see, just go through
the code once what we are doing,
make a diary, make email set.
If user has already signed up using
this email you return a new error.
Else create a new token.
Okay, do a diary entry, add to
the email set and return the token.
So this is basically what I have
made which I told you here.
So you take a token, you basically do
a diary entry and return it back.
Nice.
Now let's create a route app dot get.
Okay, let's say a me route
slash me me is basically
what that I will tell you.
Who are you if you want
to take back your car.
It's kind of like you want
Okay, so request and response.
So whenever you come back, what
I am basically saying you.
Okay, now listen to this thing.
Whenever you come back
you have to bring your token.
See now in this particular story,
if any user wants to take his car
back, he has to bring his token.
So I'll just say that hey,
in the request body you have
to bring your token back.
If there is no token.
If no token is there?
I'm just going to say return
response status.
Hey, it's a bad Request JSON.
That error is basically
missing token.
Okay, Missing token, which is good.
Else what I will do, I
will search my diary.
So I'll just say const.
Okay, I'll just search
for this token in my diary.
If Token.
Okay, in diary.
So let's say if you're not able to
find this, if token in diary is not
there, okay, then that means, hey,
you have just bought a token which
is not in my id, which means you are
not.
This is not a valid token.
Okay, you have
bought a different token.
So I'll just say invalid token.
Invalid token.
I don't have an entry.
Okay, but if I have an entry,
I'll just say const.
Entry equals diary and add
this particular token.
And what I can do, I can just
say return response JSON
and you can just return the data
as the entry that.
This is what I basically store about
you.
That's it.
So this is our me route.
So this is your very
simple authentication.
Correct.
So now if I run this particular
application, how to run.
So I'll just create a new start
script and I'll say node index.
So npm start.
Okay, so everything has gone good.
You can see server,
is running on Port 8000.
So I'll just use the Thunder client.
Okay, so let me just create
a new request and you can
just ignore these requests.
Okay, so I'll just say that.
Hey, on localhost8000.
Okay.
On localhost8000,
on which particular thing?
On slash signup.
Correct?
Just a second.
Yeah, on slash signup.
I want to make a new post request.
Nice.
Okay, in the body, I'm going
to send a JSON there I have to send
my name, which is piyush Garg.
Okay.
And I will send my email,
okay, which is piyush
piyushgur.devmail.com and also you
need my password which is 123456.
Right?
Send.
I got a token.
Can you see that?
This is my unique token.
I'll just copy this particular
token and as of now store it here.
This is my token.
If I send this request again,
email is already taken.
It's a bad request.
Nice.
Now let's say if I create
one more new request, right?
So let me just create a new request.
Okay, so in this particular new
request, what I'm going
to do is I'm just going to take
the same thing, but I'm going
to make a request on slash me.
Okay?
Slash me.
So when I send it says hey,
missing Token.
Okay, so that means in the body
I have to send a token.
So I am sending token 1, 2, 3.
It says invalid token.
This is not a valid token.
This was the valid token, right?
So if I send this token now, you
can see it says this is you.
You are this particular person.
So now what happened?
Can.
Let's say if I want to, okay, if I go
back to my server, let's say what
I want to do is I want to say that,
you know, you want to access cars.
Let's say you want
to access some private data.
So I can just say app get.
Sorry, let's make a post out only.
Okay.
App dot post.
So I'll just say that this is
some kind of private data.
Okay?
This data should only be visible
to persons who are logged in.
Who are logged in.
So what?
How can I check?
First of all, try to read the token.
Okay, if no token or
this thing see same.
I'm just copy pasting
the code, right?
Copy pasted the same code.
I'm just saying if no token,
if not token in diary entry.
Now what I can do, I can just
say if I got the entry, then
I can return you the data.
So I'll just say return
response JSON and I can just
say the data to be what?
I can just say you know, status.
I can just say private data.
Private data access granted.
Something like this.
So that means if you want
to take this, right?
If you want to make a request
on slash private data.
You can see I'm able to make a.
Not able to post because I have
to restart my server.
Now here's a problem.
Because I restarted my server,
I have to sign up again, right?
No worries, I'll just sign up again.
This is my new token.
Now if I try to access, you can
see it says invalid token
because this was the old token.
Send private data access granted.
If I will not send this,
it says missing token.
That means I am not logged in.
I am not authenticated.
So this was your very
basic authentication.
I mean in real world, this is not
how authentication works in reality.
But you have actually made
a successful working authentication
system on, on this principle.
Okay, in reality,
no worries, I'll walk you through.
In reality, this diary is going
to be what, a database?
This diary is going to be database.
Okay, now you're getting
my point, right?
And then you are going
to generate these tokens.
Got it?
Okay, now coming back,
what was the con?
Only one guard speed was slow.
Now here is a problem.
See, in reality, in real
world, what happens now?
You don't have one server
because one server cannot
handle a lot of traffic.
In reality, you actually
spin up multiple instances
of your same server.
Okay.
So when users come, when users tries
to visit your website or server.
So few requests are routed here,
few requests are routed here.
Some requests are routed here,
some requests are routed here.
So technically, if while he
was logging in or he was
creating an account,
he redirected to this server.
Now this server,
basically has the token, right?
In his states, in this particular
diary, this server, contains it.
But when he tries to access
the private data, the request was
routed to this particular server.
So what happens?
Does this server know
that this token means this user?
No.
Right.
So that is a problem.
That means this particular
approach is not scalable.
Why?
Because if, you want to go with
this approach, you have to make sure
you always and always have only
and only one server running.
Because this server maintains
a state, a diary,
this server contains the data.
So all the requests must be
handled by a single server.
So this approach of making a diary
and emails is not at all scalable.
It is not at all scalable, right.
So scalability is an issue.
But if you only want to spin
up one instance, then this is fine.
Okay, nice.
What was our second approach
that I want to scale it, right?
I want to have four instances
of my server running, but I want
to have only one diary.
So in this particular scenario, what
we could do is this diary can be
moved to a database, yes or no?
So technically what we are trying
to do is, you know, drizzle, right?
So let's say this is your database
running, so everyone can basically
connect to it, keep the tokens
here, retrieve from here.
But the problem is that with this
approach, what will happen?
You are actually making a lot of load
on the database because four servers
are continuously reading the data
and writing the data to, diary.
And while, while one is writing
to something to the diary, okay,
he's creating a token, others have
to wait, Others have to wait.
That is a problem.
But to solve this problem, if you
give four diaries to four security
guards, again, that's a problem.
You know what's a problem?
Because if the diary is
with this person, he has
to go to this person only.
He has to go to this
particular server only.
His request cannot be routed
to some other server instance.
So this is basically the problems
with this particular approach.
Okay, just for your knowledge, this
particular thing is also known as
session based authentication.
It's known as a session
based authentication.
Why?
This is known as a Session
based authentication.
Because what you are basically doing
is now you're creating a session
for a user, you are maintaining a
diary for the user and you are
giving him a temporary token which
is stored in your database, sorry,
not database, in your memory, I can
say right in your ram, in your
variable.
So while the server is running,
basically you have the access
to the token that, okay, if
the token is in the diary, you
mark him as authenticated.
So in session based authentication,
what happens is basically
the server becomes.
The server is stateful.
The server is stateful, server
is maintaining a diary for you
where it is keeping a record
of that, which token, which token
is issued to which person.
Yes or no?
Yes or no.
This is very nice because you
know what is the advantage here?
I have the control, anytime I want
to log out this user, I have to just
delete the token in my database.
So let's say if I figure out that
hey, this particular user seems a
hacker, so what I have to do is I
have to clear my diary and all the
users or that particular user with
that token is automatically logged
out because when he will again make
the request because the token is
not there, he will be considered as
logout.
Session based authentication.
The problem is it's stateful, right?
The scalability is a problem.
It's not at all scalable.
If you have noticed, this is really
nice for short lived sessions.
Can you give me an example?
If you understand banking, whenever
you log into your banking website,
you are all, you are only logged
in for a couple of minutes.
They only allow you to log
in for five minutes.
After five minutes
you are logged out.
Because they use sessions, they
use stateful sessions,
they create a token on their server,
they give you the token.
But what is in that token?
The data about that token
is stored on the database.
See, technically if you see here,
this number makes no sense.
This number which is my
token makes no sense at all.
Because the data associated with
this number that, hey, the username
is piyush, it is, you know,
email, is this password?
Is this, that data is actually stored
on the data, on the server.
So in this scenario you give
the token to the person.
Okay, but actual relevance of
the token is stored on the server.
That is the main thing.
That is why it is known as
stateful because the state is
maintained by the server and it's
a session based authentication.
It is really nice for short
lived sessions, but not
for the long lived sessions.
So what is used
in the long lived sessions?
There is something known as
JSON web tokens Right.
Or I can also say
stateless authentication.
Okay, Stateless authentication.
So this is something we
are going to cover
in the upcoming videos as well.
So let me just do one thing.
In the next video, let's end to end.
Okay?
I'm using the word end to end.
Let's end to end.
Okay.
As I say end to end, code a session
based stateful auth system.
Okay?
So in the next video we are going
to first code this and then
we are going to jump to the JSON
web tokens which is basically
a stateless authentication.
So I meet, I'll meet you
in the next particular video.